Nvidia (NVDA) rose again on Tuesday despite fresh concerns from analysts on Wall Street. The artificial intelligence chip giant is due to report third-quarter results on Nov. 20. Investors paying attention to the IBD Methodology are wondering, should they buy the stock now?

Nvidia continues to outperform and has an ideal Earnings Per Share Rating of 99, while the stock holds a Composite Rating of 96.

Nvidia stock broke out again at a proper buy point of 140.76 and finished at an all-time high on Thursday.

The stock held 9% in weekly gains, erasing the prior week's losses, when Nvidia finished 4.3% lower amid earnings from Magnificent Seven companies Microsoft (MSFT) and Meta Platforms (META).

Funds Wary Of Nvidia Stock

Though the stock's price performance has beaten 96% of other stocks in Investor's Business Daily's database, funds have been wary of buying the stock lately.

The Accumulation/Distribution Rating, which measures fund purchases over the last 13 weeks, is just D on an A+ to E scale.

Morgan Stanley analyst Joe Moore cited concerns over a chip shortage that could dent earnings and outlook.

On Tuesday, the analyst maintained an overweight rating and $160 price target but sees the September-ended period as a "transitional quarter".

Revenue from its Blackwell chip could be $5 billion to $6 billion in the January quarter, the analyst said.

Analysts at Piper Sandler see a 20% upside for the stock and raised their price target to $175 from $140. The brokerage made it a top large-cap pick on Monday. Nvidia is positioned to gain most from the increase in the total AI accelerator market which Piper Sandler sees at $70 billion in 2025.

Melius Research analysts also raised their price target to $185 from $165 and maintained their buy rating.

On Friday, Nvidia replaced Intel (INTC) in the Dow Jones Industrial Average. Nvidia is the fourth Magnificent Seven stock to join the Dow Jones industrials. The others are Apple, Amazon.com (AMZN) and Microsoft.

Third-Quarter Earnings Ahead

Nvidia's fiscal third-quarter results are due Nov. 20.

Analysts polled by FactSet expect Nvidia sales to increase 122% to $30 billion and earnings of 74 cents per share, which would be 152% higher than the prior year.

Recent news shows demand for its AI chips remains high. The chief investment officer at UBS Global Wealth Management noted that "Big Tech's combined capex [capital expenditure] spending of $218 billion this year and another $254 billion in 2025 bodes well for the AI investment thesis."

Meanwhile strong AI data center demand helped Vertiv (VRT) beat earnings estimates for its September quarter.

In October, Chief Executive Jensen Huang said that a design flaw in its next-gen Blackwell chip had been fixed.

Earlier, yields were low but AI-chip maker Taiwan Semiconductor (TSM) helped "recover from that yield difficulty and resume the manufacturing of Blackwell at an incredible pace."

Taiwan Semiconductor Reports Strong Profits

Nvidia stock cleared a trendline entry near 139.60 after Taiwan Semiconductor profits surged 54.2% year over year. Taiwan Semi is a big supplier of AI chips to Nvidia and Apple (AAPL).

But Nvidia shares fell nearly 5% after chip-gear leader ASML (ASML) disappointed investors with its outlook. 

Shares also fell on news that the company's advanced chip exports could be up against more restrictions. 

Nvidia Stock: AI's Total Addressable Market

In September, consulting firm Bain said the total addressable market for AI hardware and software will grow 40% to 55% for at least the next three years.

Demand for Nvidia's next generation graphic processing units, the GB200, is expected to reach 3 million in 2026 vs. 1.5 million for its H100 units in 2023.

Elsewhere, analysts at Bernstein said that after its phenomenal growth, sustainability is the main question Nvidia faces, but the "time to worry is clearly not now."

On Sept. 3, Nvidia fell sharply below the 50-day moving average and saw its largest one-day market cap loss for any U.S. company, according to Dow Jones Markets Data. 

Earnings From AI Giants Moves Nvidia Stock

Results from other AI leading companies have influenced the stock. Memory chipmaker Micron (MU) cited robust AI demand, which gave Nvidia stock a lift while Oracle (ORCL) Chairman and Chief Technology Officer Larry Ellison said his company is building a data center with "acres of Nvidia GPU clusters for training large language scale AI models."

But Broadcom (AVGO) results weighed on Nvidia. Broadcom's sales and earnings beat estimates but its sales outlook disappointed. 

The stock fell 6.4% after earnings on Aug. 28 even though Nvidia beat analyst estimates.

Nvidia's Second-Quarter Results

In August, Nvidia reported earnings that beat Wall Street views. Sales of $30.04 billion were higher than $28.7 billion analysts expected and came in 122% ahead of the year-earlier quarter.

Earnings also came in above views of 65 cents, at 68 cents per share. That was 152% higher than the prior year.

The artificial intelligence chip leader also guided higher for the current quarter with sales of $32.5 billion vs. views of $31.7 billion. 

Earnings have moved Nvidia stock in 2023 and 2024 and that is shining proof of why fundamental performance is one of the pillars of The IBD Methodology. In 2023, Nvidia had a huge 239% run.

But fundamentals make up just one of four IBD pillars of investing — the others are a stock's technical strength, which indicates the stock's performance vs. other stocks, the market direction and risk management.

Huang sold $580 million of Nvidia stock from June 14 through Aug. 9, based on a trading plan.

AI Products Drive Growth

Nvidia's graphic processing units help accelerate computing in data centers and AI applications.

The company was a pioneer in graphics processors used in such industries as health care, automobiles and robotics.

In March 2023, generative AI took a leap forward with OpenAI's ChatGPT. According to Huang, Nvidia's AI-capable supercomputer paved the way for the "iPhone moment of AI."

That helped Nvidia turn the tide on its results. It reported three quarters of declining year-over-year sales and four quarters of tapering earnings in late 2022 and early 2023.

But then the company achieved record top- and bottom-line growth in the five most recent quarters.

Is Nvidia Stock A Buy?

Nvidia stock is on the IBD Leaderboard, IBD SwingTrader and IBD 50.

Looking at chart signals and technical measures can help investors assess whether Nvidia stock is a buy now.

Nvidia has broken out at a conventional buy point of 140.76 in higher volume. Shares are above a buy zone that goes up to 147.80.

But they are in buying range from a handle buy point of 144.42.

Still, investors should be wary of earnings risk for the AI chip leader's fiscal third-quarter report. The report is less than two weeks away.